---
title: Maid of Honor
excerpt: This is weird, and you would hate this.
---

I always thought the next speech I gave for my childhood best friend would be at her wedding, not next to her dead body, standing in front of a room of people I don't even know. I find it strange how people go to funerals like it's a birthday party. Why are you here? Did you see her cry? At her worst? At her best? Does she even know your name? I wish she would wake up and tell me. Why does that make me angry? I want to shout at people to get out, but that's not proper etiquette. So I stand here and say some speech that millions of people give every year, summarizing her life in a single paragraph.

*She was my best friend for 17 years, and I wish I could be anywhere else but here, like at her wedding for one. But one day, you're driving down the freeway; the next, you're not. I Google, "What percentage of car crashes are fatal?" Less than 1%. I scoff at that—unbelievable. She won the Grim Reaper lottery, and now she's here in a shoe box. Who thought that was a good idea anyway? Putting someone in a box that costs thousands just to bury it in the dirt. The thought of her down there makes me sick, but so does the thought of cremating and burning her body. So, I guess nothing is right because this whole situation is wrong. She was only 23 years old. She hadn't even experienced being a mother yet or buying a house. I was robbed of my maid of honor speech. How selfish of me to think of myself. I hate myself for it, and I hate it here.*

The room's smell, a mix of old wood and musty carpet, makes my stomach churn. This room&mdash;it's ugly and falling apart. It looks like it was built in the 1930s. I'm staring off into the maroon and navy patterned carpet that looks like something straight out of a Vegas casino when the room goes silent. Everyone is staring at me... Did I say any of that out loud? Oh, my speech. I stand and walk over to the microphone. I don't have a speech planned. I'm staring at my maid of honor speech I typed on my phone three years ago. This speech doesn't matter. She can't hear me, and even if she could, she would think this was silly. I start talking, but no one's even paying attention. I can tell. Screw these people. That's why she didn't like anyone. She's my family, not theirs. But I continue and wrap it up—a boring, plain old speech. I'm surprised I was able to do that. It didn't even feel like my body talking; it felt like someone else.

I walk over to her casket. I always thought the first time I'd see a dead body would be some stranger who crossed the street at the wrong place at the wrong time, and I'd accidentally see their brains scattered on the pavement or maybe a murder investigation behind some houses in the alley. But never this way. Never you. I want to crawl into that casket with you and have them whisk us away, but I can't do that.

This is weird, and you would hate this. You would especially hate the lipstick they chose for you. What a horrible choice. Who was even in charge of that? Probably the sister you had, if I could even call her that. And here she is, sobbing on the ground, causing a scene like her pride and joy were ripped out of her hands. I can't stand another minute. I know it's not a competition of who can grieve more or who has permission to cry or make that cheesy Instagram post, but it feels that way. It feels like they don't have the right to grieve.

I look back down at her. It looks nothing like her. This isn't my friend. It's not even her face; she's all distorted. I whisper to her, "Personally, I would have never put you on display looking like this." Two hours later, they close her casket. Thank goodness. I couldn't take another second. It was like a stranger was in there. They carry her away, and it's like they just gutted me from the inside and placed my remains with her in that casket. I don't remember the rest of that night. I blacked out, not from whiskey, but from grief.

How silly of me to think of her wedding, but I can't help it. You didn't even have a boyfriend or fiancé, but I'll always be your maid of honor.
